[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What constitutes raw food?
There has been a
general consensus
amongst a number of doctors,
nutritionists, raw food
enthusiasts, that somewhere
around 40 degrees centigrade
or 120 to 125 Fahrenheit,
the heat that's
being applied to the food begins
to degrade critical factors
in the food, the number one
of which we call enzymes.
This is a life force factor
that causes the plant
to be able to grow,
reproduce, and to properly
fulfill its lifecycle.
For example, if we heat a
seed or a nut over 150 degrees
Fahrenheit for
several hours, it's
very likely that we've
completely killed
that nut's ability to grow.
It will no longer be
able to sprout and grow
into a tree or a
plant or whatever.
If we can keep our food
temperature and even
the processing of our food down
below 40 degrees centigrade
or about 100 to 125
Fahrenheit, then there
is some intrinsic
factor that's retained.
Now I know that experientially.
Scientifically we
call it enzymes,
but it's actually
deeper than that.
It has to do with the
oils in the food, which
begin to actually break
down and oxidize under heat.
It has to do with oxygen turning
aggressive at high temperatures
and creating free radical
damage to the food itself.
It has to do with
the overall cascade
of different co-enzymes,
co-factors, co-minerals,
that help the plant to
actually either grow, maintain
life, keep the chlorophyll
intact, et cetera, et cetera.
I'm not saying that 100%
of every flax seed that you
heat over 125 degrees is dead.
That's not true.
But it's a good general rule.
And if you follow it out
and use your intuition,
then you've got a tool
that you can apply.
With water we found that
the critical temperature
is actually higher, and
that it's around 160,
170 Fahrenheit, which is
around 60 degrees centigrade.
If you heat water up to
about 150 Fahrenheit,
maybe 50 degrees
centigrade, it's OK.
It's not going to actually
cause any reaction in your body.
But if you go over
that critical limit,
it will actually cause
a white blood cell
reaction in your body.
There was a Swiss doctor by
the name of Paul Kouchakoff who
showed, he was the first
to show in the 1930s,
that if you ate a diet
that was more than 51%
cooked food that your body
would react to the food
as if it was being invaded
by a foreign organism.
Meaning it would cause
leukocytosis or white blood
cell reaction.
Dr. Kouchakoff was the
first to demonstrate
that if 51% of your
diet and or meals
were raw, that you would
have no leukocytosis
or you would actually have
no white blood cell reaction.
So your immune
system would not be
activated with a false alarm.
Because we're dealing with
so many immune system issues
today, we have to make
sure that at least 51%
of every meal that
we have is raw
so that we don't overburden that
already burdened immune system.
OK, so if you're a
beginner and you're
wanting to get into
raw organic food
and you're looking as
to how to structure
your day and your
meals, a good idea
is to not abandon everything
you're doing right now,
but to look at what
you're doing right now
and decide which of the
things you're going to keep
and what is no
longer serving you
and shouldn't be there anyway.
You start off in the
morning with lots of water.
Drink one to two
liters of water,
preferably two liters of water
on an empty stomach before you
have anything.
Let that water move through you.
And usually it causes a
bowel movement to occur.
And it hydrates you
and gives you hydration
throughout the whole day.
The next step is we need to
start looking at lightening
that morning meal.
What I mean by lightening is I'm
saying no more bacon and eggs.
Let's try to move towards
a liquid breakfast.
And that would look like
a super food smoothie.
Lots of people are
already doing this anyway.
They call it a protein shake.
We're saying, do your
protein shake now.
But instead of using some kind
of chemically manufactured
protein complex
that's not organic
and is filled with chemicals
to actually move over
towards raw organic plant based
super food protein substances.
For example, you could
fill up a blender
with water, coconut
water, orange juice.
Maybe you like to do a
tea, something like that,
and then blend in
hemp seed protein.
Blend in spirulina.
Blend in goji berries.
Throw whole goji
berries right in there.
And if you really want to have
fun, throw chocolate beans
in there, cacao nibs in there,
and make the whole thing
a chocolate smoothie.
And start off your morning
having the best morning ever.
And that's a great
shift for the morning.
Sometimes it takes people
longer than others.
Let's say you're a coffee
drinker in the morning.
Take your coffee, throw
that in the blender,
and throw the super
foods in with the coffee.
For example, you could
take coffee, cacao nibs.
You could take maca, which
is an incredible super food
from South America.
You could take a
little bit of honey.
Honey helps to bind all these
disparate elements together,
make it taste better.
Just a little bit of honey,
and then use some herbs,
especially I recommend
the medicinal mushrooms
if you're a coffee drinker.
Because coffee is
very acidifying.
It has a very long term
dangerous effect on us
if we drink too much coffee
due to the acid nature.
But it's been found out that
if you eat or you drink coffee
with the medicinal
mushrooms like rishi,
cordyceps, maitake,
shiitake, coriolis, agaricus.
You don't need to
know all those.
You just walk into
the health food store
and just go, get me the
medicinal mushrooms.
They'll know what to do.
And you put those
in with the coffee.
It neutralizes the acidity.
You have no acid effect.
In fact, you can sometimes
get a slightly alkaline effect
and improve the
alkalinity of your body.
So look at that right there.
We've not really changed much.
You still get your coffee.
You've got your
chocolate in there now,
so you've got a mocha.
And it's a real mocha, because
it's made with real chocolate.
You've got your
herbal rishi, you
know, super alkalizing thing
going on with the mushrooms.
You've got the maca, which
is really nice to round out
the flavor.
And it's a super food in
its own right, you know,
if I have to tell you it's
an aphrodisiac as well.
And then honey, which binds
the whole thing together.
And you can live on
that and literally just
suddenly like that quick be
in paradise every morning,
going I can't believe
I get to have this.
And I get to have it with
no guilt, fear, or shame.
As you move later
into the morning,
if you're used to
a big breakfast
you might want to start
thinking about snacking
on goji berries in the
morning instead of reaching
for other things
that hunger might
start stimulating you to do.
Because if you're used
to bacon and eggs,
that's a lot of calories.
And you know, your
body's probably
used to dealing with all that.
And you're probably
going to be hungry
an hour or two after
your protein shake
smoothie, whatever liquid
you're doing in the morning.
Reach for goji berries,
reach for fruit,
and just try to get yourself
all the way to lunch.
If you find that you're
getting a little glycemic
in the morning because you're
just doing like goji berries
and fruit, have
something that has
a high amount of protein in it.
And that might mean
sprinkling hemp seed protein
right on top of your fruit.
Just put it right on top there.
It goes well together.
Lunchtime have a nice
big salad and a sandwich.
Usually that's what people do
anyway, they have a sandwich.
We're saying here,
add the salad in.
Have a little bit
less of the sandwich.
We're trying to get that
meal more than 50% raw.
Once you move into
the afternoon,
that's important snack time.
But two or three in
the afternoon, people
usually have a crash.
That's when we recommend
getting onto pumpkin seeds
as a snack, hemp seeds as
a snack, more goji berries,
raisins as a snack,
switching over
to some of the berries that
are in season at the time.
Like blueberries are great to
eat throughout the afternoon.
And you can literally
just eat them
while you're working
at the computer.
I've eaten five pounds of
blueberries in one day before.
Five pounds.
It was incredible.
And I felt better than ever,
literally the best ever.
And then if you can work
your way into the afternoon
and you really feel
like you need something
to kind of give you
some more punch,
you might want to
go for some kind
of a bar, some
kind of a raw bar,
like a power bar kind of a thing
or a Cliff bar type of thing.
But a raw form of
that, something
that's not been cooked.
And there's plenty of
them out there now,
energy bar of some sort.
And then you move into the
evening part of your day.
And that's when we recommend
you have a big vegetable juice.
And that's really calming
at the end of the day,
especially if you do a
celery juice, something
that has a lot of green
in it, some green color.
That's going to indicate that
this has a calming effect.
And if you can do that
towards the end of the day,
generally it's going to calm
you down, relax you, and get
you ready for an evening
with your family, an evening
of reading, catching up with
the news, whatever you're doing.
On top of that, make sure
you have a big salad.
And then if you're
doing the cooked food,
you do one type of cooked food.
Let's say it's going to be--
let's say you're having
fish and potato and rice.
You would just have
rice and a big salad.
But you can have
a lot more rice.
Or you could just have
the fish and get rid
of the rice and the potato
and have a big salad.
And we start
simplifying that meal
and then adding a salad to it.
And then in the evening,
let's say you're really hungry
late at night.
Eat fruit late at night.
Have raw food snacks
late at night.
Raw food is not fattening.
You can have as much
of it as you want.
The most fattening raw food
out there is macadamia nuts.
And if you eat massive amounts
of macadamia nuts, which
I have done, I
can't do it anymore,
but I have done it in the past.
The maximum weight you can
gain pigging out on that stuff
all the time is 10 pounds.
And if you're
already overweight,
you'll lose weight
eating macadamia nuts.
I want to add that in.
Because people think,
avocados, fattening!
I can't eat avocados.
I saw my cousin lose
150 pounds eating
8 to 16 avocados every day.
Now this is a guy who had
a lifelong eating disorder.
And he just decided
that he was going
to switch his eating
habits over to raw food.
And sure, he was going
to overeat as he'd always
done his whole life.
But no longer had to suffer
for the side effects.
And that is a valuable
tool of raw food.
Yeah, you might have
an eating disorder
or might have some problems.
But raw food at least
allows you to eat the food
and not suffer with side
effects as a result.
If you do this program just what
we've kind of laid out there
as a day, the transformational
qualities of that
alone are outrageous.
It's almost impossible
to describe.
It's an experiential phenomenon.
And you start there.
From there, you're going to want
to know more and go for more.
And then you just
continue the education.
When it comes to protein,
in the future, and even now,
the best sources of protein
are raw organic plant
based super foods.
Because we can get all
the protein that we
need from those sources.
They've been undamaged
by heat, and they
are completely absorbable.
They can be liquefied easily.
That's what I'm
saying by absorbable.
How much energy do
you think it takes
to turn spirulina into a
liquid and get in your body?
Well, you put spirulina in
water, it's already liquefied.
You drink it, it'll go right
into your cells like that.
But a steak requires a
massive amount of energy
to liquefy it and
make it absorbable
by your digestive system.
And it's a waste
of time and energy.
I am not a big advocate
of preaching vegetarianism
to everybody or veganism
or even raw foodism.
But we do know for a fact that
an 80% raw organic plant based
diet that covers all the
different facets of fruits,
vegetables, nuts, seeds,
seaweed, sprouts, grasses,
super foods, and herbs is
a massively valuable part
of a healthy and wonderfully
abundant lifestyle.
So from that
perspective, we just
let people look at
all the information
and decide for themselves.
If I got on a whole
track of like you've
got to be this or that or
you need to be a vegetarian,
this is not
appropriate for people.
Because it turns
people off, it doesn't
allow them to come to
their own conclusions.
I'm a vegetarian.
I've been a vegetarian
for 16 or 17 years.
I'm a blood type O
as well, you know?
I mean if I had
listened to the experts,
I'd probably be dead right now.
Don't listen to experts.
Listen to your body first,
then experts second.
Your body will tell you.
And if you're having
too much meat, you know.
You will know.
And if you actually need
meat, you'll know that too.
You just have to be
sensible about these things
and really take your power back.
Instead of giving your
power away to advertisers
and, you know, the meat
industry and the dairy industry,
take your power
back and understand
what's working for you.
And of course, always
organic no matter what.
At the very least organic.
If you're going to have any
kind of meat in your diet,
let's have it be organic.
[MUSIC PLAYING]